>> Erik Reinert: Okay, cool.
So we've got that the next file we
want to create is security group tf.
So again, we took care of the calculation
of our subnets and we made or
we reused a base module for
creating like our networking environment.
However, it doesn't necessarily mean
that it's going to solve all of our
problems for it.
It's just us,
it's just going to take care of that lower
level networking part at some point.
The module can only go so far before you
have to start solving your own things.
Like, okay, I want these
security rules of my preference,
not any other person's security rules or
whatever.
In this case you can actually use
a module with other normal resources or
other modules as well.
That's exactly what I'm doing here.
I'm using more modules to now create
security groups on top of that network.
So I've created the network and
I know that it's all set up basically out
of the box, but now I want to make it so
I can give SSH access to my bastion box or
I want to make it so that the private
network will be able to only
communicate with the database network.
Like other kind of more custom
preferences that I have.
So in this file,
what we're doing is we're doing just that.
This is our first security group
where we are telling it, hey,
I want to name it var name Bastion.
What's nice about this is remember
it's all separated into environments,
which means we will get out of the box
a bastion node in every environment.
Again, it's just another reason why
this environment organization is really
powerful.
Because it means that, okay,
if I was looking at EC2 and
I wanted to look at the dev bastion,
I would just see dev bastion.
Okay, cool.
Probably prod-bastion, okay, cool.
Now I know which ones I'm
trying to connect to.
We tell it what ingress with CIDR
blocks that we want to connect to.
And so I'm doing a little bit of
terraform logic here to basically say,
hey, for each bastion ingress
value inside of the array,
give it the CIDR block and
then allow it over SSH tcp.
And because I'm using a module to do this,
this module itself is also going to create
multiple internal resources that has
just made it easier to customize because
when you don't use a module like this,
you actually need two resources,
you need the security group and
then you have to add rules to that
security group with another resource.
So it's just more cumbersome, more work.
I can do everything in one place
with this module directly.
So we do the same thing for our database
security group where we basically say,
hey, if anything is on the database
network, allow it to access itself.
So by default, only databases on
the database network can communicate with
other databases right now.
And then we do the same thing for
elasticache,
we create a private subnet as well.
Basically what you're noticing here is
that I'm creating security groups for
each network.
Like I'm just laying out the plane or
each subnet space, right?
So I'm saying like, okay,
here's the security group for database,
here's the security group for
the private subnets.
And I'm just like slowly
separating all of my traffic and
filtering based off of just those.
So I'm not trying to focus on say, okay,
only this RDS instance can just
talk to this RDS instance.
I don't think that's a really great
way of making networking in Amazon.
A big reason for
that is because it's one to one, right?
And so if you make a change, if something
happens, if you make a firewall change,
you could accidentally break
something without meaning to.
So what I like to do is I like to
have higher level security groups
that everything shares.
So today when we create stuff,
everything's going to get provisioned
with the private security group.
That's it, I'm done.
I don't have to think about filtering or
anything else.
I know that everything on the private
security group will be accessible via
the private security group.
It's internal, so I don't have to worry
about it being online either, right?
And it just makes
networking a lot simpler.
So if you want to go deep down into like
the rabbit hole of like, I'm going to
create a security group just for this
database and then just for this database
and then I'm going to make it so that I
add a rule here and add a rule there.
Well, that's like four operations that
you're going to have to figure out how
to do, right?
Whereas instead I can just
create a security group and
then wherever else I provision things,
whenever I go to use a security group,
I can just look this one up and say
we're just going to use the private one.
Then again, because ingress with self,
meaning that, hey,
anything in the private security group
can access across every protocol and
across everything effectively.
There's no blocking whatsoever.
If you're in the private security group,
you get access to everything.
And this is like, again,
this is like where I like to start, but
we do want to poke some holes and
so what we're doing is again,
instead of poking a hole from one instance
to another, what we're saying is that,
hey, we want to allow the private
subnet to access the database subnet.
And so we say, okay, 5432, poke a hole
from one security group to another.
This is another thing that's really
nice about constructing policies and
security policies in Amazon.
Have you noticed that I haven't defined
a CIDR or IP address at all here?
That's because I'm just using
abstracted security rules and
I'm gluing those together.
I'm just saying, hey, if you're in this
security group, you're good to go.
It doesn't matter what your IP address is,
it doesn't matter what space you're in,
but if you don't have that security group,
you will not be able to
access this cluster, yeah.
So when we're talking
about security groups,
is that just a higher level concept
on the built in firewall in AWS?
It's literally iptables basically,
yeah, it's literal firewalling.
Yeah, so when we create our subnets and
we like put something on the network
in those subnets, by default they
can all communicate with each other.
Like that's just how Amazon
works out of the box is that
every everything in
the 10.0.0.0 16 address space.
If you're in that address space, you can
communicate with anything inside of it.
So we want some isolation there, right?
But we've already separated
our stuff by subnet.
So I don't really want to go lower than
that cuz it's five things versus 90
things.
So in this case what we're doing is
we're saying, okay, we're, well, I have
a database subnet, I have elasticache
subnet, intra or private and public.
Let's create security groups for
those subnets and then let's make it so
that every resource gets attached
to those security groups and
then we'll do all of our filtering
through the security groups, right?
And so
then it just naturally gets inherited.
You don't have to worry about IP
addresses or anything like that.
But you're still traffic shaping
in a way where you know, okay,
private can only talk to database or
database only lets private talk to it,
right, and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's a little higher level, but it
is, yeah, it's like, it's like, it's like
you said it's like network filtering on
top of the network that we created, yeah.
And so, yeah, in this case,
what we're doing is we're allowing,
you'll see the referenced
security group id,
that's the private network
that we want to allow in.
And then the security group ID is
the address or the net or, sorry,
the security group that we want to update.
So in this case, we're saying,
hey, database security group,
when it's the private security group,
allow it just over 5,432.
So we did make a hole, but
we made just like a tiny little hole for
that entire address space,
which means we didn't do all, all here.
I could have just said, all right, well,
allow everything from
the database network to the.
But it's like, well, I know it's
only going to be used over 5,432 and
I know it's only going to be used for
databases.
So let's be somewhat granular there.
But let's not make it too complex to
where it's going to be a pain in the.
Don't make it so that it's a random port.
You know what I mean?
Don't let your databases
provision on anything but 5432.
You'll be good.
That's the standardization we're
putting in place with our traffic.
So if somebody created a database and
they put it on 5433 and
they come to you and they're like,
why is my database isn't working?
It's your fault.
It's like, well,
what address did you put it on?
5457.
Why just use the default one?
That's the one that works out of the box.
We do the exact same
thing with Redis as well.
So we say, okay, elasticache,
we want you to be able to connect to the.
I'm sorry,
we want the private subnet to be able
to connect to Elasticache for Redis.
Redis default is 6379.
That should never change.
So as long as you use the default port and
you're connecting from
the private subnets to the elasticache
subnets, you have allowed traffic.
You can do that.
So again, we're putting some security in
place, but we're not getting massively
granular with it to the point where we're
trying to do it with every resource and
stuff like that.